

=== CSX Releases 2023 Annual Report, Highlighting Strong Service ... ===
URL: https://www.csx.com/index.cfm/about-us/csx-releases-2023-annual-report-highlighting-strong-service-performance-and-commitment-to-innovation-and-safety/
Snippet: CSX is a leading supplier of rail-based freight transportation in North America. But there's more to CSX than you might expect.





=== CSX.com - Company Overview ===
URL: https://www.csx.com/index.cfm/about-us/company-overview/
Snippet: See CSX's company overview. Based in Jacksonville, Florida, CSX Corporation is a leader in freight transportation.





=== CSX Climbs to 5th in Industry on 2025 Fortune World's Most ... ===
URL: https://www.csx.com/index.cfm/about-us/csx-climbs-to-5th-in-industry-on-2025-fortune-worlds-most-admired-companies-list/
Snippet: CSX has once again solidified its reputation as a leader in the transportation sector, earning a spot on the 2025 Fortune World's Most Admired Companies list.





=== CSX's SWOT analysis: rail giant navigates challenges, eyes growth ===
URL: https://www.investing.com/news/swot-analysis/csxs-swot-analysis-rail-giant-navigates-challenges-eyes-growth-93CH-3924436
Snippet: The ongoing oversupply in the freight industry poses a significant challenge for CSX's recovery efforts. Excess capacity can lead to pricing ...





=== CSX expects continued coal challenges in 2025 | Latest Market News ===
URL: https://www.argusmedia.com/en/news-and-insights/latest-market-news/2650709-csx-expects-continued-coal-challenges-in-2025
Snippet: Eastern US railroad CSX is expecting coal market weakness to linger into this year, weighing on the company's overall volumes.

Register and we will customize a solution that meets your exact needs. When you speak to one of our experts, you may be qualified to sample our industry-leading products on a no-cost basis.
Eastern US railroad CSX is expecting coal market weakness to linger into this year, weighing on the company's overall volumes.
A large part of the coal volume decline could come this quarter because of production issues at some mines, CSX executives said today. Later on in 2025, coal-fired power plant retirements may weigh on CSX's domestic coal volumes.
The carrier did not give specific volume guidance for 2025. CSX hauled 82.7mn short tons (75mn metric tonnes) of coal in 2024, down by 3pc from 2023. The railroad's domestic coal shipments dropped by 14pc to 38.9mn st and offset a 9pc increase in shipments to export terminals, marking the first time in the company's history that more than half of CSX's coal carloads were headed to export terminals.
In the fourth quarter, both CSX's domestic and export coal volumes were lower when compared with a year earlier. CSX loaded 9.6mn st of coal headed to domestic customers last quarter, down from 10.9mn st in the final three months of 2023. The railroad's export coal volumes dipped to 10.5mn st from 10.8mn st. 
CSX attributed the fourth quarter year-on-year declines to reduced production, including planned and unplanned outages at customer facilities. The company also "navigated the effects" of lower seaborne coal pricing and continued to encounter lower domestic demand, primarily from utility customers, CSX chief commercial officer Kevin Boone said. 
"More recently, we have seen colder winter weather reducing coal utility stockpiles", which could provide some opportunity for domestic utility coal inventory rebuilding in the short term, Boone said. But upcoming power plant retirements will hit CSX's domestic coal shipments, and production issues will drag on overall coal volumes in the first half of 2025.
CSX did not name the mines experiencing production problems. CSX services Core Natural Resources' Leer South metallurgical coal mine in West Virginia, which was recently taken off line as the company works on and recovers from a fire that started on 13 January.
CSX also expects lower seaborne coal prices to drag down the company's revenue in the first half of 2025. The railroad's fourth quarter coal revenue fell by 20pc to $499mn and full year 2024 revenue decreased by 10pc to $2.25bn. Average revenue per coal railcar in the fourth quarter decreased by 14pc to $2,788/car.
In addition to decreased volumes and seaborne prices, CSX's fourth quarter coal revenue was negatively affected by disruptions from the aftermath of Hurricane Helene, which hit the US southeast at the end of September, and Hurricane Milton in early October. 
The storms also affected the company's overall fourth quarter revenue and service metrics. CSX's intermodal trip plan performance — which compares actual movements to the railroad's plans — averaged 84.9pc, compared with 94.7pc a year earlier. The company's carload movements were about 75.5pc of what it had planned, down from 84.7pc in the final three months of 2023. 
Still, CSX's overall railroad volume last quarter rose by 1pc from a year earlier, to 1.58mn carloads and intermodal units such as chemicals, minerals and intermodal shipments topped fourth quarter 2023 levels. 
CSX attributed the gains in chemicals shipments to increased volumes of plastics, crude oil, and natural gas liquids. The company's international intermodal volumes were supported by higher port volumes and "growth with key customers", while CSX's domestic intermodal shipments increased primarily because of growth in transcontinental shipments. CSX automotive shipments declined.
Total CSX revenue for the quarter decreased by 4pc to $3.54bn because of lower fuel surcharges, and coal revenue outweighed gains in merchandise and intermodal volume growth.
For all of 2024, CSX's volume was 2pc higher than in 2023, at 6.28mn carloads and intermodal units, while revenue dipped by 1pc to $14.5bn.
CSX cycle times in 2025 are likely to be greater than they were last year, when Helene and Milton and the March collapse of the Francis Scott Key Bridge in Baltimore, Maryland, temporarily disrupted traffic.
By Courtney Schlisserman
Argus illuminates the markets by putting a lens on the areas that matter most to you. The market news and commentary we publish reveals vital insights that enable you to make stronger, well-informed decisions. Explore a selection of news stories related to this one.
Dubai, 3 April (Argus) — A core group of eight Opec+ crude producers in a
surprise move today have sped up plans to gradually unwind some 2.2mn b/d of
production cuts by upping output by 411,000 b/d in May. "In view of the
continuing healthy market fundamentals and the positive market outlook… the
eight participating countries will implement a production adjustment of 411,000
b/d equivalent to three monthly increments, in May 2025," said the group
comprising Saudi Arabia, Russia, the UAE, Kuwait, Iraq, Algeria, Oman and
Kazakhstan. The decision to increase output by 411,000 b/d in May will kick in
with the start of the summer season in the northern hemisphere when oil demand
typically picks up. But it also comes on the heels of the US announcing sweeping
new global tariffs for a range of imports. Ice Brent crude futures were down by
more than 6pc from the close on 2 April, at $70.15/bl at 13:04 GMT, after
briefly dipping below $70/bl earlier today, following the two announcements. The
administration of US president Donald Trump could welcome today's Opec+
decision. Trump had already made calls to the Opec group to "bring down the cost
of oil" — something that could be achieved by raising output. The eight Opec+
countries last month decided to proceed with a plan to begin gradually unwinding
some 2.2mn b/d of production cuts from April and over an 18-month period —
pushing their combined output targets up by 137,000 b/d averaged on a monthly
basis through September 2026. The monthly increases could end up being smaller
as seven of the eight countries, excluding Algeria, have committed to
compensating for past overproduction. The Opec+ group of eight today maintained
that increases may be paused or reversed subject to evolving market conditions.
"This flexibility will allow the group to continue to support oil market
stability," it said, adding that the measure "will provide an opportunity for
the participating countries to accelerate their compensation". But the group's
commitment to voluntary production adjustments and compensation for
overproduction has been shaky at best. Opec+ secondary sources pointed to
overproduction from Saudi Arabia, Russia, the UAE, Kuwait, Iraq, Oman and
Kazakhstan since the start of last year. The countries submitted new
compensation plans to the Opec secretariat late last month. The implementation
of the compensation cuts in the coming months has become essential for the
group, in order to try and balance the planned gradual increases and ensure
markets are not oversupplied. By Bachar Halabi Send comments and request more
information at feedback@argusmedia.com Copyright © 2025. Argus Media group . All
rights reserved.
Singapore, 3 April (Argus) — South Korean private-sector firm GS Energy's
subsidiary GS Energy Trading Singapore is seeking LNG deliveries starting from 1
January 2028, over a 5-15 year period. The first round of offers will be due on
25 April and the second to close on 1 August later this year. The firm has
requested volumes of up to 0.81mn t/yr in 2028 and up to 0.97mn t/yr from 2029
onwards. This is equivalent to around 13-14 cargoes/yr in 2028 and about 16-17
cargoes/yr from 2029 onwards, assuming an average LNG cargo size of 60,000t. The
cargoes will be delivered to the country's 10.8mn t/yr Boryeong terminal, which
is owned by power producers SK E&S and GS Energy. The firm has also specified
for offers to be linked to Brent or a hybrid of Brent and Henry Hub. South
Korean utility Korea South-East Power in June 2024 also signed an agreement with
TotalEnergies for a five-year term delivery of up to 500,000 t/yr of LNG to
South Korea from 2027. Meanwhile, state-owned gas incumbent Kogas is expected to
operate with a smaller pool of long-term LNG supplies from 2025, with the
government granting it more flexibility in its procurement strategy. Long-term
contracted supply volumes may typically be priced at a higher premium, and could
be deemed as a small price for buyers to secure supply security, traders said.
By Naomi Ong Send comments and request more information at
feedback@argusmedia.com Copyright © 2025. Argus Media group . All rights
reserved.
Singapore, 3 April (Argus) — US president Donald Trump's announcement of
sweeping new tariffs on all US imports has sparked an immediate sell-off in oil
futures and stock markets. Crude oil futures fell by almost 3.5pc in Asian
trading and some stock markets in the region fell by a similar amount, after
Trump unveiled the new import tariffs on 2 April. All foreign imports into the
US will be subject to a minimum 10pc tax, with levels as high as 34pc for China
and 20pc for the EU, Trump said. But energy and some mineral products have been
excluded from the new tariffs. Tariffs on Japan and South Korea, both major
trading partners and long-standing US allies in Asia, have been set at 24pc and
25pc respectively. Indonesia, Vietnam, Taiwan and Thailand also face tariffs of
more than 30pc. Tariffs on imports from China will be subject to a 54pc rate,
after taking into account the 20pc tariffs imposed by Trump over the last two
months. Some imports from China that are subject to pre-existing tariffs will
face an even higher effective rate. The blanket 10pc tariffs will take effect on
5 April. Any additional country-specific rates will come into force on 9 April.
Oil futures fell despite the exemption for energy products. The June Brent
contract on the Ice exchange fell by as much as 3.2pc to a low of $72.52/bl in
Asian trading, while May Nymex WTI dropped by 3.4pc to $69.27/bl. The prospect
that the US tariffs could disrupt global trade and hit export-focused economies
in Asia sent stock markets in Tokyo, Hong Kong and South Korea down by 2-3pc or
more. US stock futures also fell sharply. By Kevin Foster Send comments and
request more information at feedback@argusmedia.com Copyright © 2025. Argus
Media group . All rights reserved.
Mexico City, 2 April (Argus) — Mexico's manufacturing sector contracted for a
12th consecutive month in March, with production and employment both deepening
their slides, according to a survey released today. The manufacturing purchasing
managers' index (PMI) ticked up to 47.2 in March from 47.1 in February, but
remained below the 50-point threshold between contraction and expansion,
according to the latest PMI survey from the finance executive association IMEF.
Manufacturing, which accounts for about a fifth of Mexico's economy, is led by
the auto sector, contributing about 18pc of manufacturing GDP. Within the
manufacturing PMI, the new orders index rose by 1.3 points to 45.3, still deep
in contraction. Meanwhile, production fell by 0.6 points to 44.6. The employment
index also declined 0.6 points to 46.4 in March, now in contraction for 14
consecutive months. Meanwhile, the non-manufacturing PMI — covering services and
commerce — declined 0.8 points to 48.8 in March from 49.6 in February, holding
in contraction for a fourth consecutive month. Within the non-manufacturing PMI,
new orders fell 1.5 points to 48.2 and production declined 1 point to 47.5 with
employment down a point as well in March to 47.5, as all three pushed deeper
into contraction. In contrast, the inventories component rose 3.5 points to 50.6
into expansion territory in March. But this may be the result of company
strategies to stockpile inventories ahead of US tariffs and the reciprocal
measures Mexico is set to announce on 3 April, IMEF technical advisory board
member Sergio Luna said. PMI data show that the economic stagnation that began
in late 2024 persisted through March, with results from January and February
pointing to a sharp slowdown in the first quarter, IMEF said. This follows
annualized GDP growth of 0.5pc in the fourth quarter of 2024, slowing from 1.7pc
in the third quarter, according to national statistics agency data. Luna said
concerns over US tariffs continue to drive much of the uncertainty reflected in
the PMI data. Internal factors — such as reduced government spending to contain
the fiscal deficit and investor unease over judicial reforms passed last year —
are also weighing on activity, Luna added. By James Young Send comments and
request more information at feedback@argusmedia.com Copyright © 2025. Argus
Media group . All rights reserved.
Sydney, 2 April (Argus) — Senior figures in Australia's upstream gas sector have
hit out at plans for intervention in the heavily regulated industry, as debate
continues on how to best address domestic supply shortfalls later this decade.
The federal Coalition in March announced National Gas Plan including a 50-100
PJ/yr (1.34bn-2.68bn m³/yr) domestic reservation system aimed at forcing the
three LNG exporters based in Queensland's Gladstone to direct more supply to the
eastern states' market. But oversupplying the market to drive down prices would
destroy the viability of smaller gas projects, Australian independent Beach
Energy's chief executive Brett Woods said at a conference in Sydney on 1 April.
The domestic-focused firm, which will export some LNG volumes via its Waitsia
project in 2025, warns that such a move by the Peter Dutton-led opposition would
reduce export incomes while harming Australia's international reputation. The
volumes impacted by the policy could reach around 900,000-1.8mn t/yr.
Expropriation of developed reserves is equivalent to breaking contracts with LNG
buyers and with the foreign and local investors that the country needs for
ongoing economic security, Woods said on 1 April. Domestic gas reservation
systems put in place by the state governments of Western Australia (WA) and
Queensland, designed to keep local markets well supplied, were "clearly
supportable", Woods said, but only future supply should be subject to the
regulations. LNG terminals, which represent about 70pc of eastern Australia's
total gas consumption and shipped 24mn t in 2024 , should not be blamed for the
failure of governments to expedite new supply and plan for Australia's gas
future, head of Shell Australia Cecile Wake said in response to the Coalition's
proposal. Shell's QGC business supplied 15pc of its volumes to the local grid,
with the remainder shipped from its 8.5mn t/yr Queensland Curtis LNG project,
Wake added. Canberra has moved to promote gas use as a transition fuel to firm
renewable energy in line with its 2030 emissions reduction targets, but progress
has been slow as reforming laws appear to be hampering development . The state
governments, particularly in gas-poor Victoria and New South Wales (NSW), must
recognise the need for locally-produced supply and streamline the approvals
processes, especially environmental permits, executives said. But despite pleas
for an end to years of interventionist policy — including the governing Labor
party's measures to cap the price of domestic gas at A$12/GJ , Australia's
fractured political environment and rising cost of living has sparked largely
populist responses from its leaders. A so-called "hung" parliament is likely to
result from the 3 May poll , with a variety of mainly left-leaning independents
representing an anti-fossil fuel agenda expected to control the balance of power
in Australia's parliament. LNG debate sharpens Debate on the causes of southern
Australia's gas deficit has persisted, and the ironic outcome of underinvestment
in gas supply could be LNG re-imports from Gladstone to NSW, Victoria and South
Australia, making fracked coal-bed methane — liquefied in Queensland and
regasified — a likely higher-emissions alternative to pipeline supply. Several
developers are readying for this possibility , which is considered inevitable
without action to increase supply in Victoria or NSW, increase winter storages
or raise north-south pipeline capacity. Australian pipeline operator APA appears
to have the most to lose out of the active firms in the gas sector. APA chief
executive Adam Watson this week criticised plans for imports, because relying on
LNG will set the price of domestic gas at a detrimental level, raise emissions
and decrease reliability of supply, Watson said. The firm is planning to
increase its eastern pipeline capacity by 25pc to bring new supplies from the
Bass, Surat and Beetaloo basins to market. But investment certainty is needed or
Australia will risk needing to subsidise coal-fired power for longer if
sufficient gas is unavailable to back up wind and solar generators with peaking
power, Watson said. By Tom Major Send comments and request more information at
feedback@argusmedia.com Copyright © 2025. Argus Media group . All rights
reserved.
Get concise, trustworthy and unbiased analysis of the latest trends and developments in oil and energy markets. These reports are specially created for decision makers who don’t have time to track markets day-by-day, minute-by-minute.

