

=== 17 companies tap more than 100 UIC students to tackle tech ... ===
URL: https://today.uic.edu/17-companies-tap-more-than-100-uic-students-to-tackle-tech-challenges/
Snippet: These industry-academic partnerships aim to address the long-standing gender imbalance of the tech workforce. The internship begins May 9 and is ...


				May 9, 2022			
More than 100 women and nonbinary students pursuing undergraduate degrees in computer science, data science and other tech disciplines at the University of Illinois Chicago will team up with 17 Chicago and national companies to help solve technology-related business challenges. 
The students are participants in Break Through Tech Chicago’s annual Sprinternship, a micro-internship program designed to transform the career trajectories of women (cisgender and transgender) and nonbinary individuals by offering the foundational work experience that prepares them for the tech workforce.
These industry-academic partnerships aim to address the long-standing gender imbalance of the tech workforce.
The internship begins May 9 and is a true three-week “sprint” ending May 27. Students, typically organized in teams of five, will present the results of their challenge project in their final week of Sprinternship.
“While statistics on the scant representation of women in the tech workforce and leadership ranks can at times be overwhelming to absorb, Sprinternship offers a solution that is within reach of every company and every student,” said Amita Shetty, director of the Break Through Tech Chicago program. “The results of investing in this program speak for itself, not just in Chicago, but across multiple sites.”
While more than half of all undergraduate degrees awarded in the U.S. go to women, only 1% of women are graduating with degrees in computing. The program’s primary goal is to advance gender diversity by improving students’ access to full-length summer internships sooner in their academic journey.
The Break Through Tech Chicago partners for the 2022 Sprinternship are:
Sprinternships are tailored by the organizations that host them, so each one is unique, but all include a team-based approach that focuses on a tech challenge project, a career immersive experience and hands-on mentorship. Last year’s projects ranged from analyzing the digital customer experience to predicting machine failures to addressing the Chicago digital divide. The 2022 Sprinternship projects are expected to similarly inspire and prepare the next generation of technologists and leaders.
“The tech world of tomorrow will look different. There will be more diversity: in gender, in background, in ways of thinking. It will be that way because of the important work we are doing here today,” Shetty said.
More information about hosting Sprinterns in 2023 can be found at chicago.breakthroughtech.org or by contacting btt@uic.edu.


Contact

Jacqueline Carey
							312-996-8277
jmcarey@uic.edu



Categories

Students, Top Student News 


Jacqueline Carey
							312-996-8277
jmcarey@uic.edu

Categories

Students, Top Student News 
Topics
Break Through Tech, College of Engineering, women in science and engineering



=== Business Research Guide: Industry Information ===
URL: https://researchguides.uic.edu/business/industry
Snippet: This guide provides information on how to do library research in all business subjects using resources available to students, staff, and faculty at UIC.

Find items in UIC Library collections, including books, articles, databases and more.
Advanced Search
Find items on the UIC Library website, including research guides, help articles, events and website pages.
Articles can provide information on small or very specific industries.  If the industry reports are too broad, look for articles. 
(1984-present)
Published daily by Dow Jones Factiva Corp. with online full-text from 1984, and images, tables and graphs from August 9, 2006 to present.
ABI/INFORM is an extensive business research database with full-text articles from business journals, business and trade magazines and newspapers.
Replaces both D&B Business Browser and Hoover’s Online. Good company and industry information. Includes public and private companies worldwide. Usually includes a SWOT Analysis.Limited to 50 simultaneous users. May not be compatible with wireless devices.
Gartner Research provides access to research and analysis on information technology (IT) technologies, practices, and strategies performed by the Gartner Group. The University of Illinois Administrative Information Technology Services subscribes to this database. Selected reports are available for students, faculty and staff of the University of Illinois.
Gartner Research contains research and analysis done by the Gartner Group that can be used for planning, decision making, and measurement purposes for making continual process improvements towards industry best practices. It does not include Dataquest documents nor special reports. Other information is only available by request to the University's Gartner representative. Individuals needing help accessing the content should contact the AITS Service Desk.
Since 1971 IBISWorld has provided thoroughly researched, accurate and current business information. It provides valuable insight into America’s 700+ industries. Users will need to create individual accounts to access some features of the resource.
Find statistics, consumer survey results and industry studies from over 22500 sources on over 60000 topics on the internet's leading statistics database.
If you have problems accessing Statista, clear your browser's cache and cookies, then restart your browser.
There are two classification systems used to classify business establishments for collecting and analyzing statistical data.  Many databases use both.  NAIC codes are often more specific, but SIC codes can be used for historical comparisons.
 
NAIC Codes
 
Standard Industrial Classification System (SIC)
Information about specific industries can sometimes be found in online books using the catalog.  Search under marketing research and the industry name. 
 
Healthcare Business Market Research Handbook
Women of Color in Tech:  A Blueprint for Inspiring and Mentoring the Next Generation of Technology Innovators
 

Privacy Statement

© 2023 The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois



=== Key Issues | Office of the Vice Chancellor for Strategic Marketing and ... ===
URL: https://smc.uic.edu/resources/keyissues-2/
Snippet: This website offers information and resources related to key issues of current and ongoing interest to students, faculty, staff, alums, the public and the media ...

The University Communications team within the Office of Strategic Marketing and Communications is UIC's central information source and public voice, managing media relations, internal and executive communications, and crisis and issues management.
This website offers information and resources related to key issues of current and ongoing interest to students, faculty, staff, alums, the public and the media. This page will be updated with new information as it becomes available.
Contact the University Communications team at smcs@uic.edu for support and guidance in addressing potential and arising issues.
Related resources:
UIC is committed to nurturing a safe, welcoming and vibrant learning environment. You are encouraged to take advantage of the resources and support services available to enhance your personal well-being, your safety on campus and your academic experience. Learn more about UIC resources for students, faculty and staff.
Related resources:
The Office of International Services is available to answer questions, discuss options, and assist you in navigating both on and off-campus resources. We encourage you to seek assistance early and as often as needed. Connect with OIS via email (ois@uic.edu), phone (312-996-3121), or by appointment.
Related resources:
The Office of the Vice Chancellor for Research is closely monitoring policy instructions from federal research agencies and their implications for UIC research. OVCR’s website is updated with new information about federal research agency policy changes as it becomes available. Researchers are encouraged to monitor the COGR 2025 Administration Transition Information & Resources page for frequent updates and links to primary sources.
If your work is experiencing impacts from federal policy changes or you have received direct communication from a sponsor, please contact the Office of Sponsored Programs by emailing  NotifyOSP@uic.edu. A representative of the Office of the Vice Chancellor for Research will respond as quickly as possible. 
Related resources: 
Know your rights resources 
The Office of the Vice Chancellor for Research is compiling communications it has received from U.S. federal agencies regarding the effects of recent executive orders. A breakdown of specific agency communications is available via the OVCR website.
UIC is closely monitoring policy instructions from federal agencies and their implications for research and the campus community. 
EducationCounsel is tracking Executive Orders and other administrative actions and generating summaries and initial analyses to help the education field understand what the administration has done and the likely impact of those actions.
The Federal Registrar publishes a list of recently signed Executive Orders. You may also wish to check the White House website. 
For suggested questions, please contact smcs@uic.edu and include “Key Issues FAQ” in the subject line. 
University leadership is actively working to assess the directives and their potential implications for UIC and our sister institutions within the U of I System. We continue to consult our legal counsel and national organizations, and leverage our networks to gain clarity and insights on the best ways to move forward. Information, updates and resources will be posted on our Key Issues webpage. 
These are deeply uncertain times, where the landscape seems to shift daily, if not hourly.  While we face challenges and rapid changes, the university will continue emphasizing the importance of good communication, anticipating and managing uncertainty, and focusing on UIC’s mission. Information, updates and resources will be posted on our Key Issues webpage. 
Currently, it is not necessary to make changes to online content, although websites should  be updated to remove outdated or obsolete information about programs that are no longer  operational, have been discontinued, or are no longer active. If you have specific questions  or need additional guidance, please email smcs@uic.edu.   
The evolving federal landscape presents potential financial risks, with significant uncertainty surrounding federal support of higher education broadly. In addition, we are contending with higher costs driven by inflation and increased tariffs, possible reductions in federal grants and facilities and administration revenue, and immigration policies that could impact student recruitment and staffing. 
UIC is implementing a hiring chill and new restrictions on high-dollar investments to ensure financial sustainability as we navigate these uncertainties. The new policies and procedures are outlined in a Feb. 21 campus communication.   
No definite timeframe has been identified.  
You may proceed with interviews that were scheduled before Feb. 21, 2025. You must  obtain your unit leader’s approval before scheduling any new interviews. Offers extended  on or before Feb. 21, 2025, are excluded from additional approval. Extending offers after  Feb. 21, 2025, will require approval. 
While no email template has been created, the request and justification should identify the need for the position, the impact of not filing the position, the benefits of filling the position and any additional factors. If the position is grant funded, the justification should reflect the vacancy is directly funded by a grant.  
The bulk approval process should be used for positions with a high volume of vacancies. These may include undergraduate and graduate students, post docs, graduate assistants, research assistants and teaching assistants.  
An email seeking approval should be sent to the respective and appropriate leader. The email should include a detailed justification identifying the need for the positions, the impact of not filing the positions, the benefits of filling the positions and any additional factors. The number and type of positions needed (e.g., 25 grad students over the summer) should also be included. If the position is 100% grant funded, note this as your justification. For GA/RA/TA positions, the justification should include FTE percentage (e.g., 10 are .25 FTE and 15 are .50 FTE). 
The goal is to provide final approval within 72 hours receipt of the request. This may be  delayed if additional details or information are needed. 
Requestors will be notified via email.  
Appeal requests must be reviewed by the unit leader. Resubmission of the request should  be directed to the appropriate vice chancellor. 
Yes. Detailed information in connection with the request, along with a detailed justification,  is required. 
Federal student financial assistance programs, such as grants and loans, have not been impacted by executive orders or other federal directives. 
While it remains a time of uncertainty and concern among the federal sponsors and the research community, please be assured that university leadership is actively working with our legal counsel and national network to gain clarity on each federal research agency policy change. Researchers are encouraged to maintain their operations until details can be reviewed. 
Even as certain activities continue or resume, other things may change. Any notices you receive directly from sponsors and program officers should be sent to the Office of Sponsored Programs as quickly as possible. Staff will work with each faculty member individually to address any required changes and provide appropriate guidance when available. 
The Office of the Vice Chancellor for Research closely monitors policy instructions from federal research agencies and their implications for UIC research. OVCR’s website is continually updated with information about federal research agency policy changes as they become available. Researchers are encouraged to monitor the COGR 2025 Administration Transition Information & Resources page for frequent updates and links to primary sources. 
If your work is experiencing impacts from federal policy changes or you have received direct communication from a sponsor, please get in touch with the Office of Sponsored Programs by emailing  NotifyOSP@uic.edu. A representative of the Office of the Vice Chancellor for Research will respond as quickly as possible.  
Legal challenges have paused some of the announcements, including plans by the National Institutes of Health to cap indirect costs funding at 15% for all existing and new grants. As we await a resolution on the matter, it’s essential to be aware of how this change would have significant impacts on our entire campus community, including: 
We encourage you to be patient with your agency program managers, scientific review officers and other federal personnel as we sort through the recent changes. You are also encouraged to talk with your research groups about the importance of remaining focused and continuing the important work that you are all doing. If you receive any communication from your sponsors, please share them with the Office of the Vice Chancellor for Research by emailing NotifyOSP@uic.edu. 
No. Diversity is one of our greatest assets, and we want to ensure that everyone at the  University of Illinois Chicago can gain knowledge, awareness and community through  celebrating our different cultures, heritages and identities.   
Although the Supreme Court’s decision in Students for Fair Admissions struck down the  practice of using an applicant’s racial identity as a criterion during the admissions process,  the court’s opinion characterized diversity-related interests as “worthy” and  “commendable,” and noted that universities still “can, of course, act to undo the effects of  past discrimination in many permissible ways that do not involve classification by race.”  
In alignment with our mission to foster a supportive environment for all members of our  university community, we expect that any diversity programming is open to all regardless of  background and does not engage in racial exclusion or discrimination. 
UIC steadfastly reaffirms its mission, values and commitment to fostering an inclusive community. Whether you are a student, faculty or staff, we support you. UIC is committed to nurturing a safe, welcoming and vibrant learning environment. We are going to hold true to our most deeply held values of access and excellence. 
Campus community members are encouraged to take advantage of the resources and support services available to enhance their personal well-being, safety on campus and academic experience.  
Access and excellence will always remain our most deeply held values, even as we work to ensure that our policies and practices align with legal requirements. As with other issues that have arisen recently, we continue to consult with our legal counsel, in addition to national organizations and networks, on the potential implications to gain clarity and insights on the best ways to move forward.  
Updates and resources regarding this issue and others will be posted on our Key Issues webpage. 
Visit the Immigration Updates page of the Office of International Services website to review all recent communications related to immigration changes impacting the UIC international community.
What should I consider before booking trips or departing the country?
The Office of International Services has compiled frequently asked questions (FAQs) to assist international students and scholars in reflecting on their personal situation and decision to travel.
Contact the Office of International Services if you experience an immigration-related emergency, such as needing to verify your status to CBP or local police officials, while traveling in the U.S. or abroad. Call the OIS front desk at 312-996-3121 during regular business hours (8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday) or the OIS After-Hours Emergency Contact at +1-312-415-0334 outside of regular hours.
There are longstanding protocols at UIC regarding interactions with off-campus law enforcement officials, as well as those regarding email or paper-based inquiries. UIC provided these protocols and reaffirmed its commitment to upholding a safe and welcoming campus environment in a Jan. 25 campus communication that outlined measures faculty, staff and students can take and the basis for our protocols to safeguard and care for our campus community. 
UIC is closely monitoring policy instructions from federal agencies and their implications for undocumented members of the campus community. UIC community members can review guidance and resources related to campus policy and individual rights for interactions with federal immigration enforcement.
As a public hospital, UI Health, like our patients, relies on Medicaid. Medicaid is essential to keeping the doors of our hospital and clinics open. This is also true at countless other hospitals and clinics across Illinois and the country. Medicaid is the single largest payer for mental health services in the United States.  
One in 4 Illinois residents — more than 3.4 million people — are covered by Medicaid. Having Medicaid allows for the prevention and treatment of chronic diseases and provides preventative care to keep our communities healthy. Thanks to Medicaid at UI Health, we have made meaningful progress in strengthening access to care.  
Medicaid and Medicaid Managed Care represent nearly 40.5% of UI Health’s inpatient and outpatient payor mix. Almost 2 out of every 5 patients we care for rely on Medicaid.  
Enhanced tax credits that started during the COVID-19 pandemic are set to expire at the end of the year. A projection from the Urban Institute suggests this will cause premiums to nearly double, eliminate health coverage for another 45,000 Illinoisans, and leave 67,000 fewer people in the state covered by subsidized ACA plans, a decrease of 20%. If Congress does not renew it, it may cause some to drop coverage and become uninsured due to higher costs.  



=== About UIC - Online Business - University of Illinois Chicago ===
URL: https://onlinebusiness.uic.edu/resources/about-uic/
Snippet: Learn more about University of Illinois Chicago's mission, rankings, and accreditation.

The largest university in one of the world’s most vibrant cities.
The University of Illinois Chicago is an acclaimed research institution with 16 colleges dedicated to the discovery and distribution of knowledge.
You belong at UIC
As one of the most ethnically and culturally diverse universities in the country, UIC’s welcoming environment gives you the chance to study, work and grow with classmates who will broaden your perspectives and worldview. Download our UIC At-A-Glance fact sheet.
UIC’s mission
UIC provides the broadest access to the highest levels of intellectual excellence. UIC’s mission is:
Why choose UIC online? 
UIC Rankings
Accreditation
The University of Illinois Chicago is accredited by the Higher Learning Commission (HLC), which accredits degree-granting post-secondary educational institutions in the North Central region of the United States.



=== UIC joins national effort to improve semiconductor sector ===
URL: https://ece.uic.edu/news-stories/uic-joins-national-effort-to-improve-semiconductor-sector/
Snippet: ... manufacturing by addressing challenges in the semiconductor sector, improving supply chain resilience, and promoting economic growth.

UIC’s electrical and computer engineering department is joining a coalition of industry, government, and academic institutions to advance U.S. leadership in semiconductor manufacturing by addressing challenges in the semiconductor sector, improving supply chain resilience, and promoting economic growth.
Professors Sudip K. Mazumder and Igor Paprotny are part of a Semiconductor Research Corporation (SRC)-led team that has been awarded a $285 million Semiconductor Manufacturing and Advanced Research with Twins USA (SMART USA) grant supported by the U.S. Department of Commerce and National Institute of Science and Technology.
The initiative is focused on fostering innovation in semiconductor research, manufacturing, and workforce development. SMART USA will work to develop, validate, and use digital twins to improve domestic semiconductor design, manufacturing, advanced packaging, assembly, and test processes.
Digital twins are virtual digital models that replicate physical objects such as chips or machinery. These virtual models of a system’s processes provide a rich virtual environment where any number of simulations can be run. Digital twins incorporate real-time data from embedded sensors, and their two-way flow of information offers more robust opportunities for correction. This use of AI can optimize chip design, improve production efficiency, and lower costs by streamlining operations and reducing the need for costly adjustments.
The new SMART USA Institute will be headquartered in Durham, North Carolina, and will join an existing network of seventeen institutes designed to increase U.S. manufacturing competitiveness and promote a robust R&D infrastructure.
UIC’s involvement in SMART USA highlights the university’s commitment to advancing cutting-edge technologies and supporting U.S. leadership in semiconductor manufacturing.
“By working with the SRC and other partners, UIC will contribute to the development of new research methodologies, advanced manufacturing techniques, and workforce training programs that will shape the future of the semiconductor industry,” Mazumder said. “This collaboration represents an opportunity for UIC to leverage its expertise in engineering and technology to make a lasting impact on the leverage its expertise in engineering and technology to make a lasting impact on the future of semiconductor manufacturing and research.”
SMART USA partners

